[exciting opening theme music plays]
[Guevaru gasps weakly]
[grunting]
-[inmate 1] Whoa! He's trying to get up!
-[inmate 2] Guevaru's trying to stand!
[breathes deeply]
[inmate 1] How can he even move
after taking a blow like that?
-[Guevaru grunting]
-[Baki gasps]
[struggling]
[heartfelt string music playing]
[Guevaru] My poor people…
My poor people…
For them…
For my poor people…
[people cheering]
[exciting music plays]
[ship horn blasts]
[music continues]
[inmate 1] He's up! Guevaru got up!
[inmate 2] He still wants to fight!
We get to see some more!
[wind whistling]
[Oliva] Mm-hmm.
I had a feeling you'd get back up.
[Guevaru] Hmm.
You know today is a good day to die.
[chuckles softly] A phrase
borrowed from the US Army.
It's said that American soldiers
liked to used that expression
back during the Vietnam War
before they headed off into battle.
Guevaru, you do understand, don't you,
what the true meaning of that phrase is?
[Guevaru] Yeah.
It isn't a phrase about dying.
It's a phrase about living.
It's about fighting bravely
in a fierce battle, surviving,
and returning to one's homeland afterward.
[Oliva] Yes, exactly.
That's because, in actuality--
There really is no good day to die.
Until you do…
[pounds]
…you must always live for today!
[suspenseful music playing]
Now, Guevaru…
[blood flowing]
[heart beats]
[whooshes]
…this is the finale.
[inmate 1] He's makin' a fist!
-He's makin' a fist!
-[inmate 2] He's gonna finish it!
[eerie whoosh]
[Guevaru] "The wind rises…"
[power humming]
All right, then.
"One must always try to live."
It's time to settle this.
[inmates gasping]
[old man gasps]
Biscuit Oliva,
the strongest man in America,
your worth lies
within those muscles of yours.
Your frame stands at over six feet tall,
and within it lies 330 pounds of muscle,
which is unprecedented
in all of human history.
It's not difficult for me to imagine
the destructive power that you're capable
of generating with that body of yours.
[growls]
-[inmates] Huh? What's he…
-[gasps]
[inmates murmuring]
[Oliva] Hmm?
[inmates gasping in confusion]
[inmate 1 gasps] That's…
[inmate 2] The tuxedo!
[inmates] Whoa!
[gasps]
[inmate 2] Whoa! The tuxedo
was standing that whole time,
but it fell as if on command!
[inmates gasping]
The history of all barehanded fighting,
of martial arts,
is directly linked to human history.
[intense music plays]
Some put all their faith in muscle.
Some put all their faith in speed.
Muscle, strength, speed, angles,
balance, finding weak spots…
Various technical reforms
and creative innovations
led to different breathing techniques
and the concept of chi.
[whooshing]
And from that growth
came modern martial arts.
Despite all that advancement,
blind spots still exist.
There really hasn't been true progress
since back in the era of stone axes.
[chuckles] Yeah? Do enlighten me.
I'll tell you.
[dramatic sting]
It's support.
Support? How?
[Guevaru] Even Chinese martial arts,
which boasts a history
spanning 4,000 years,
uses the surface of the ground as support.
[punch lands]
Boxing,
sumo…
Out of all the martial arts,
none question
the utilization of the ground
as an angled support
for strikes and throws.
And that means
one must rely on muscle and strength.
Nobody really recognizes the earth
as the greatest possible support.
Their understanding doesn't go any further
than a millimeter below the ground.
They don't give it a thought.
But, now you're about to experience…
[dramatic music playing]
…the solidity of the center of the Earth,
which lies over six million meters
below the surface.
[Oliva groans]
[Guevaru] Feel it.
[rumbles]
My foot is connected
to the farthest depths of the Earth,
to the very center of the entire planet…
[whooshes, booms]
…the core of the Earth!
[music fades]
[inmates cheering]
-[Baki] Hey, Guevaru.
-Huh?
[Guevaru gasps softly]
This guys wants to congratulate you.
Mr. Bush!
[gasps]
[Bush] I'm no match for you.
Please forgive me.
[Guevaru] This is so weird!
[Baki] Oh, and someone else
wants to say hello to you too.
[gasps]
-[dramatic sting]
-[Guevaru] What?!
-Hey, there!
-[Guevaru gulps]
They say that I'm the strongest man
on earth or whatever.
[Guevaru] What in the world
is he doing here?
But it isn't actually me.
Huh?
It's you.
Right, Guevaru?
[Guevaru uncertainly] Uh…
I know! It's so obvious.
Yeah, right?
[all laughing]
[Guevaru] I am not really sure
what's going on here.
Is this…
a dream?
[Oliva growling]
[Baki gasps]
[shuddering]
[Maria gasps]
[all gasping]
[old man gasping]
[gasping]
-[blood squishes]
-[Oliva grunts]
Hmm.
[inmates gasping]
-[thuds]
-[inmates gasping]
[gasping continues]
[Oliva] Hey.
Come and carry Mr. Guevaru out of here.
Be respectful,
and take great care with him, you hear?
[inmates gasping uncertainly]
That's it. The fight's all finished now.
We're not gonna hear any more singing.
You're pretty strong.
Yep.
But maybe you just had
greater faith in your body.
Easy for you to say.
Guevaru was strong as well.
-But he had no love.
-Uh-huh.
Huh?
[Oliva] Love for muscles, I mean.
[gasps]
At a much earlier time
in Guevaru's training,
he said goodbye to an irreplaceable love,
that of muscles and raw power.
Technique, balance, flexibility,
support, and the denial of strength…
He gave all his attention
to those loves instead.
But strength ended up
taking her revenge on him.
She's the jealous type, you see?
[chuckles]
There's something else you might not know.
My body as you see it now
isn't its actual size.
[inmates gasp]
I'm sure that right now
all of you are wondering
how I keep it so compact.
Wait, did he just say "compact"?
But he's huge!
-[Oliva] Naw.
-[crunches]
You see, I'm actually holding it all in.
[nervously] You're holding it in?
If I were to just let go
and allow the door that metaphorically
holds my muscles in to swing open,
since they're so big, they'd probably
burst out from beneath my skin,
-crush everyone here…
-[inmates screaming]
…and smash through the outer walls,
destroy the entire complex,
and expand all the way into the sky.
No, no, no, that's impossible.
Hmm. Say, Baki,
I'm sure that you're not aware of this,
but each and every day,
the food I consume adds up
to more than 100,000 calories.
[Baki gasps] What?!
Even an Olympic athlete
at the peak of their training
would struggle to take in a tenth of that,
a mere 10,000 calories a day.
100,000 calories.
That's the same amount of calories
that you'd find in 500 of those rice bowls
that your people in Japan
seem to love so much.
[all gasping in surprise]
[thuds]
But, look! Despite that,
I still maintain a low 5% body fat.
That's right, just 5%,
even though a professional athlete
couldn't even come close
to burning through
the calories of my diet.
It's impossible.
Okay, I'll admit,
you look pretty darn fit,
but come on!
[chuckles]
[whooshing]
[Oliva] Take the space shuttle,
by the time it reaches
the upper atmosphere,
it's burned up
all the fuel in its giant tank,
which is even bigger
than the spaceship itself.
Even now as we speak,
I'm burning tons of calories.
Holding it back, sealing it in,
pushing, suppressing,
binding up the thing inside of me
that's always trying to expand outward.
I'm continuously holding it at bay.
I can't let up even for a moment.
[inmates gasping in surprise]
Wow, I did not know that.
-[exciting music plays]
-Just imagine,
the only reason
that any of us are still alive
is that you're
so vigilantly keeping yourself
as compact as you are right now.
We're all super grateful!
Hmm?
[thuds]
Actually, what's even more amazing
is that despite all that effort,
I'm still able to get
a good night's sleep.
[all gasping in surprise]
Hey.
[dramatic sting]
Put me down.
[chuckling] Oh!
I'm so sorry! So, so, sorry.
[chuckles] So, kid,
you really want a go at me that bad, huh?
[gasps]
-[smacks]
-[Baki] This power!
It's just like…
It's just what I wanted!
Bring it on!
[gasps]
[ominous sting]
[Oliva growls]
-[inmates gasp]
-[Baki] Uh…
I have to apologize to you
for exaggerating.
[chuckles] I lied.
I'm not really bigger than a building.
Yeah, of course not! I know that!
And to be completely honest with you,
I didn't actually refine
these muscles for fighting.
[Baki] What?!
This body of mine…
[Maria] Huh?
…was really made to do this
for this beautiful person.
[all gasping in surprise]
Uh, hey now.
I'm sorry to keep you waiting, Maria.
♪ Yai-saa-hoh ♪
♪ On a moonlit night ♪
♪ Raise the anchor high ♪
♪ Yai-saa-hoh ♪
♪ On a stormy night ♪
-♪ Raise up the sails ♪
-[seafaring music playing]
♪ With the stars as our guide ♪
♪ Set a course for treasure ♪
♪ Set the bottles of rum aside ♪
♪ Burn the iron bright ♪
♪ Yai-saa-hoh ♪
♪ On a moonlit night ♪
♪ On a stormy night ♪
♪ Yai-saa-hoh ♪
♪ Raise up the sails ♪
[music fades]
[footsteps approaching]
It seems no one saw anything.
We woke up this morning, it was empty.
Huh?
Hmm.
So this wasn't left only for me?
This is for Maria as well?
[paper tearing]
[unfolding letter]
Hmm.
[mellow Western music plays]
It's money,
the official currency of his island.
[guard] Hey, boss!
-[grunts uncertainly]
-Hmm? Oh!
[dramatic sting]
-[adventurous string music playing]
-Mm? Uh…
[dramatic sting]
When did he do this?
[Oliva] It's out of consideration
for you guys.
[guard] Huh?
He has the strength
to easily leave this place
by just walking through the front gate,
if that's what he wanted to do.
[guard grunts]
But he knew you guys
couldn't exactly pretend
that you didn't see an inmate saunter
up to the gate and walk right through it.
[both grunt in surprise]
[Oliva] If he'd done that,
you guys would've been embarrassed.
[guard grunts nervously]
So, he just escaped this way.
The punishment for actually not seeing
is bound to be a lot less
than for pretending not to see something.
It's his way of being considerate,
so you oughta
just accept it with gratitude.
[grunts angrily]
So then,
what is this for?
Huh?
You can't use it in here,
or anywhere else in America,
for that matter.
Yeah, you're right.
There's only one place in the whole world
where you can use it.
Which means it's an invitation, I think.
[Oliva] Ah.
"So if you want to spend it,
come to my island."
Is that it?
[Kent] Are you gonna go?
[Oliva] Mm… Not today.
[waves lapping at shore]
[wind blowing]
-[birds singing]
-[loud buzzing in distance]
[tree cracking]
[thuds loudly]
-[grunts]
-[thuds loudly]
-[men gasp in surprise]
-[chopping continues]
Hey, where you been all this time, boss?
[man 2] I know it doesn't take
that long to go to the bathroom.
[man 3] Your axe's been in that tree
since you've been gone.
Well, I'm back.
Uh… Yeah, but from where?
Oliva.
[men] Oliva?
[men gasp]
[man 2] You actually went?
But that guy's
the strongest man in America.
I mean, his arms are over two feet around.
They're, like, this big!
Do you really think
that you could take him, boss?
I gotta try, right?
[men laughing happily]
Oh, there you go! Kick his ass!
[all gasping in shock]
You went to the States? Really?
Um, so Oliva, what's he like, anyway?
[Guevaru] Hmm.
Well, he's strong.
[men grunting uncertainly]
So, did you beat him?
I didn't.
[all gasping in surprise]
Oh! While you were gone,
he had another kid! Twins actually!
[Guevaru] What?! Twins?
So, that makes this your…
Uh, one, two… How many do you have?
Nine now.
[chuckles]
[laughs happily]
-That's way too many!
-[man 4] Well, you know…
[all laughing]
[man 1] That reminds me,
the pig at old lady Sara's place--
[man 3] Yeah, it's constipated.
[Guevaru] What? Again?
What's wrong with that pig?
[man 1] I know, right?
What could she be feeding it?
[all laughing]
Roll call!
Get a move on, you lazy bums.
Hurry and get lined up.
Now, all cells report in!
[inmates] Cell one, clear!
Cell two, clear!
Cell three, clear!
Cell four, clear!
[guard] Needless to say,
you punks are nothin' but human garbage.
You have no freedoms at all!
The only thing
you're allowed to do in here is breathe!
That's it!
You've got no one to blame
but yourselves for being stupid!
-[Baki] Um…
-[guard] Hmm?
What's wrong, boy? Gotta use the potty?
Can I go outside?
[guards] Huh?
All I wanna do is go out
and get a little fresh air.
Just for a few minutes.
[inmates] Huh?
[sputtering in confusion]
Huh?
[Baki] Sorry for this.
-[thuds]
-[groans]
[grunts]
-Don't move!
-[all gasp]
-[Baki] I'm sorry for this.
-[high-pitched whine]
[inmates gasp]
[whistling]
See y'all later!
-[Baki chuckles]
-[inmates cheering]
-[heavy metal music playing]
-[inmate 1] Go get it!
[inmate 2] Yeah!
Get plenty of that fresh air!
-[inmate 3] Don't come back! Keep going!
-Freeze!
[Baki grunting]
[grunts]
[guards] He's trying to escape!
He's headed for the front gate!
[alarm ringing]
[inmates cheering]
[cocks gun, grunts]
[shot ricochets]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[whimpering]
[guards groaning]
-[thuds]
-[groans]
[keys jingling]
[beeps]
[panting]
[music fades]
[doors clunking, whirring]
Unfortunately, you won't be
getting any fresh air right now.
Turn around and go back
to your "home" immediately, Baki.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Baki chuckles]
You really put a lot of effort
into all of this.
You mind telling me
what you hoped to achieve
with this reckless little stunt?
I don't know.
I thought I might become, uh…
Unchained.
And, what conclusion
have you come to about that now?
[music crescendos]
[music fades]
I think that…
I can.
[closing theme music plays]
Subtitle translation by: